Pattern matching, right?
So in this condition,
we not only check if Sasha is a dog.
But if so, we cast Sasha as a dog, and
we store it into this newly
introduced sashaTheDog variable.
So this is a shorthand way
of writing it all out.
So remember I said we could do it
like if this is an instance of that,
then do something, right?
And maybe you want to do a typecasting or
something like that.
With this pattern matching, it allows you
to essentially perform two actions in one.
So that top if clause is the exact
same thing as the bottom one.
That's just a shorthand way of doing it.
That is called the instance
of pattern matching.
So basically, you're saying,
if Sasha is an instance of dog,
then create a new dog object
called sashaTheDog, and
then cast Sasha to the dog.
So you could say all of
that by just saying sasha
instanceof Dog, sashaTheDog, same thing.
>> And they call that
instance of pattern matching?
>> Instance of pattern matching.
>> Quick question about it.
>> Yeah.
>> So for this instance of pattern
matching, the scope of sashaTheDog is,
I'm guessing,
the scope of the curly brackets?
>> Lovely, look at you.
Yes, so you've defined,
basically defined a new
variable inside of that if
clause which means that
sashaTheDog will only be
accessible within that scope.
I love that question so much.
>> You could change it to that way.
You could set that as a global.
You wouldn't necessarily have to do it
inside, or you could set it outside.
>> If you wanted to do it, I don't
think you could do that as a global,
not with the instance of check.
Because at the global level,
outside of methods,
the only thing you can do really
is kind of declare fields.
So this logical check here where you have
an if statement would not be allowed
outside of a method You
see what I'm saying?
Let me show you.
So I couldn't put an if
statement right here.
Well, we don't even know rocky or
anybody cuz it's outside of scope.
But it's already complaining even before I
got to rocky, cuz I'm outside of a method,
any executable code like this
needs to be inside of a method.
>> So the only way to do it is maybe
if you do it like it's a Boolean or
if it returns true,
then it saves the value to an experiment.
>> Yeah, you could do something
like you could declare,
I don't know,
like Dog sashaTheDog up top, and
then do some, I don't know,
something like that.
I don't know, that's kind of wonky.